[New Term] C++ Math Functions: `nearbyint()` (#1041)
Codecademy/docs: content/cpp/concepts/math-functions/terms/nearbyint/nearbyint.md

---
Title: 'nearbyint()'
Description: 'Returns the argument rounded to the closest integer as a floating-point value.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Arithmetic'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`nearbyint()`** function returns the argument rounded to the closest integer as a floating-point value, according to the current rounding method.

## Syntax

```pseudo
nearbyint(value)
```

> The function accepts a `value` parameter that represents a positive or negative floating-point value. The current rounding method, as described by `fegetround()`, determines which direction the `value` is rounded. By default, the rounding direction is set as `FE_TONEAREST`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The `value` parameter represents a positive or negative floating-point value. The current rounding method, as described by `fegetround()`, determines which direction the `value` is rounded. By default, the rounding direction is set as `FE_TONEAREST`.
```

### Example

The following example returns the nearby integer of `1.5`:

```codebyte/cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>

> int main(){
>     double value = 1.50;
>     int result;
>     result = std::nearbyint(value);
> 
>     std::cout << "Nearest value is " << result << "\n";
>     // Output: Nearest value is 2
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
int main() {
  double value = 1.50;
  int result;
  result = std::nearbyint(value);

  std::cout << "Nearest value is " << result << "\n";
}
```

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This will produce the following output:

```

And then let's add a newline, followed by a \```shell code block that looks like this:

```shell
Nearest value is 2
```

### Codebyte Example

The following example returns the nearby integer of `2.9`:

```codebyte/cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>

> int main(){
>     float value = 2.9;
>     int result;
>     result = std::nearbyint(value);
> 
>     std::cout << "Nearest value is " << result << "\n";
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
int main() {
  float value = 2.9;
  int result;
  result = std::nearbyint(value);

  std::cout << "Nearest value is " << result << "\n";
}
```

---
Title: 'nearbyint()'

> Description: 'Returns an integer that is closest to a given argument.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns the argument rounded to the closest integer as a floating-point value.'
```

> Description: 'Round off the given argument(value) to the nearest integral value.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns an integer that is closest to a given argument.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Arithmetic'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The `cmath` header defines `nearbyint()` function that returns the nearby integral value of a given argument. It takes a single argument as a floating point value and returns the round off value of the argument as an integer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`nearbyint()`** function returns an integer that is closest to a given floating point argument.
```

With Docs entries, we definitely want to be descriptive but not too verbose. The opening sentences here should plainly state what the function returns in relation to the given argument(s).

## Syntax

> ```py

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```pseudo
```

This didn't seem like the correct language signature but for "Syntax" sections the snippet should almost always be a \```pseudo code snippet.

nearbyint(n)
```

> 

Reviewer: Under this snippet, let's include 1-2 sentences that describe the `n` parameter including what data type(s) it can be and possible edge cases. For example, what would happen if `n` were equal to something like zero or pos/neg infinity or a float that ends in `.5` (rounds up or down)?

> ### Example 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example
```

Usually for term entries, we include just one "Example" section.

> The function accepts a `n` parameter that represents a positive or negative floating point value. If the decimal value of `n` is 0.5 or greater, then the function returns an integer value greater than `n`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The function accepts a `value` parameter that represents a positive or negative floating-point value. The current rounding method, as described by `fegetround()`, determines which direction the `value` is rounded. By default, the rounding direction is set as `FE_TONEAREST`.
```

> The function accepts an `n` parameter that represents a positive or negative floating point value. If the tenths decimal value of `n` is 5 or greater, then the function returns an integer value greater than `n`.

Reviewer 2: "The function accepts a parameter `n`..."
"If the decimal value of `n` is 0.5 or greater..."

Author: I have resolved your comments. Thanks for reviewing.

> The following example returns the nearby integral value of `1.5`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example returns the nearby integer of `1.5`:
```

> The function takes the argument `n` which represents the positive or any non-negative floating point value. If the last decimal value of `n` is 5 or greater than 5 then the function returns an integer value greater than `n`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The function accepts an `n` parameter that represents a positive or negative floating point value. If the tenths decimal value of `n` is 5 or greater, then the function returns an integer value greater than `n`.
```

Reviewer: I just tested `nearbyint()` and it seems to work for negative values as well as positive ones.

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>

int main()
{
    double value = 1.50;
    int result;
    result = std::nearbyint(value);

    std::cout << "Nearest value is " << result << "\n";
    // Output: Nearest value is 2
}
```

> ### Example 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Codebyte Example
```

Since C++ code is compatible, we should feature a "Codebyte Example" section at the end of the entry.

> int main()
> {
>     double value = 1.50;
>     int result;
>     result = std::nearbyint(value);
> 
>     std::cout << "Nearest value is " << result << "\n";
>     // Output: Nearest value is 2
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
int main() {
  double value = 1.50;
  int result;
  result = std::nearbyint(value);

  std::cout << "Nearest value is " << result << "\n";
  // Output: Nearest value is 2
}
```

The following example returns the nearby integral value of the `2.9`:

> ```cpp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```codebyte/cpp
```

#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>

int main()
{
    float value = 2.9;
    int result;
    result = std::nearbyint(value);

>     std::cout << "Nearest value is " << result << "\n";
>     // Output: Nearest value is 3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    std::cout << "Nearest value is " << result << "\n";
```

For Codebyte examples, output comments are not needed since the output appears after the code is actually run.

> int main()
> {
>     float value = 2.9;
>     int result;
>     result = std::nearbyint(value);
> 
>     std::cout << "Nearest value is " << result << "\n";
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
int main() {
  float value = 2.9;
  int result;
  result = std::nearbyint(value);

  std::cout << "Nearest value is " << result << "\n";
}
```

Author: This has been resolved!
